Five min quickstart (#3307)
garden-io/garden: docs/getting-started/5-min-quickstart.md

# 5 Minute Quickstart Guide

In this quickstart guide we'll install Garden and deploy an example application using the `local-kubernetes` plugin.

Garden is pluggable by design and most often used with the (remote) Kubernetes plugin and the Terraform and/or Pulumi plugins.

Getting started with those requires a bit more set up and the goal here is to get you quickly started and to demonstrate Garden's main capabilities.

In the guide we'll:

* Install Garden

> * Install local Kubernetes

Author: Haha! No strong opinions on my end.

> * Install local Kubernetes

Author: Actually, I'm leaning towards the current version. It flows more naturally in this context.

* Deploy an example application

## Step 1 — Install Garden

You need the following dependencies on your local machine to use Garden:

* Git (v2.14 or newer)
* rsync (v3.1.0 or newer)

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add something like:
> Run `git version` and `rsync --version` to verify that a recent enough version of Git and rsync is installed.

Then install the Garden CLI for your platform:

{% tabs %}

{% tab title="macOS (Homebrew)" %}
```sh

> brew tap garden-io/garden

Reviewer: Just a thought: How about changing this to
```sh
brew tap garden-io/garden && brew install garden-cli
```
so that it's a one-liner execution in the shell?

brew install garden-cli
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Linux" %}
```sh
curl -sL https://get.garden.io/install.sh | bash
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Windows" %}
Open PowerShell as an administrator and run:

```PowerShell
Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/garden-io/garden/master/support/install.ps1'))
```

We also recommend adding an exclusion folder for the `.garden` directory in your repository root to Windows Defender:
```powershell
Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath "C:\Path\To\Your\Repo\.garden"
```
This will significantly speed up the first Garden build of large projects on Windows machines.

{% endtab %}

{% endtabs %}

For more detailed installation instructions, please see our [Installation guide](./1-installation.md).

## Step 2 — Install Kubernetes locally

{% hint style="info" %}
If you already have [a supported version](../guides/local-kubernetes.md#requirements) of Kubernetes installed locally you can skip this section.
{% endhint %}

In this guide we're using local Kubernetes since that's usually the fastest way to get started.

> For real world projects we recommend using a remote Kubernetes cluster since that comes with various benefits such as shared caches and, well, the fact that you don't need to run K8s on your laptop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For real world projects we recommend using a remote Kubernetes cluster since that comes with various benefits such as shared caches and, well, doesn't need you to run K8s on your laptop!
```

Below are our recommended local K8s providers by platform. For alternatives, check out our [local Kubernetes guide](../guides/local-kubernetes.md).

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="macOS (Docker Desktop)" %}
First, download and install Docker Desktop for Mac following the instructions on the [official Docker site](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/).

Then enable Kubernetes in Docker Desktop:

1. From the Docker Dashboard, select the **Preferences** icon.
2. Select **Kubernetes** from the left sidebar.
3. Next to **Enable Kubernetes**, select the checkbox.

> 3. Select **Apply & Restart** to save the settings and then click Install to confirm. This instantiates images required to run the Kubernetes server as containers, and installs kubectl on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Apply & Restart** to save the settings and then click Install to confirm. This instantiates the images required to run the Kubernetes server as containers, and installs kubectl on your machine.
```
